Dear JetBlue Customers,
We are sorry and embarrassed. But most of all, we are deeply sorry.
Last week was the worst operational week in JetBlue’s seven year history. Many of you
were either stranded, delayed or had flights cancelled following the severe winter ice storm
in the Northeast. The storm disrupted the movement of aircraft, and, more importantly,
disrupted the movement of JetBlue's pilot and inflight crewmembers who were depending
on those planes to get them to the airports where they were scheduled to serve you. With
the busy President’s Day weekend upon us, rebooking opportunities were scarce and hold
times at 1-800-JETBLUE were unusually long or not even available, further hindering our
recovery efforts.
Words cannot express how truly sorry we are for the anxiety, frustration and inconvenience
that you, your family, friends and colleagues experienced. This is especially saddening
because JetBlue was founded on the promise of bringing humanity back to air travel, and
making the experience of flying happier and easier for everyone who chooses to fly with us.
We know we failed to deliver on this promise last week.
We are committed to you, our valued customers, and are taking immediate corrective steps
to regain your confidence in us. We have begun putting a comprehensive plan in place to
provide better and more timely information to you, more tools and resources for our
crewmembers and improved procedures for handling operational difficulties. Most
importantly, we have published the JetBlue Airways Customer Bill of Rights – our official
commitment to you of how we will handle operational interruptions going forward – including
details of compensation. We invite you to learn more at jetblue.com/promise.
You deserved better - a lot better - from us last week and we let you down. Nothing is more
important than regaining your trust and all of us here hope you will give us the opportunity
to once again welcome you onboard and provide you the positive JetBlue Experience you
have come to expect from us.
Sincerely,
David Neeleman
Founder and CEO